IMPORTANT SCHOOL POLICIES, NORMS & INFORMATION
(APPLICABLE FROM THE ACADEMIC YEAR 2019-20 ONWARDS)
GENERAL
1. School Policies: A copy of all the applicable school policies will be made available at the start of the academic year
to all parents and students. Every student, parent and/or guardian is required to read, be familiar with and abide by
all the prescribed policies as indicated, and as and when updated. Any violation of the school policy could result in
a cautionary notice, suspension or any other appropriate action depending upon the severity of the situation.
SAFEGUARDING & WELL-BEING
2. Child Safeguarding: Please be informed that Legacy School prioritizes the safety and well-being of all our learners
and members of our school community. Our practices are established in accordance with international benchmarks
for child safeguarding in schools. All forms of abuse, whether perpetrated in person or online, which causes any
harm – be it verbal, physical, emotional or sexual, and any form of neglect of the child, will all be reported to the
concerned authorities.
3. Harassment & Anti-tolerance Policy: The school requires all members of our community to remain professional
and respectful in their interaction, behaviour and communication (expressed, implied, written and electronic/
cyber) with each member of the community, which includes students, teachers, parents, administrators and Board
members. Any action or communication that is deemed to be derogatory, demeaning or disrespectful, such as
speaking rudely, speaking in a harsh or raised tone, passing disparaging or sarcastic comments, threatening and
arm-twisting will not be tolerated and will result in appropriate action being taken immediately depending upon
the severity of the situation.
GOVERNMENT MANDATES
4. Right to Education (RTE) Act: Legacy School reserves 25% of our available seats for applicants seeking admission
under the Right to Education (RTE) Act. Admissions under the Right to Education (RTE) Act are accepted at the
Montessori II (LKG) class level and also in Grade 1, unless a change in policy is notified by the Department of
Education indicating otherwise. As a result, 25% of our available seats also remain reserved in the Montessori 1
(Nursery) class.
ACADEMICS
5. Curriculum:
a. Pre-Primary (Ages 3-6): Legacy School follows the Montessori method and approach to engaging children
in the process of learning in the M1 (Nursery), M2 (Lower Kindergarten) and M3 (Upper Kindergarten)
grades. Upon the completion of the Montessori program, we enable a child’s successful transition to the
International Primary qualification in Grade 1.
Legacy School is an authorized Cambridge Pathway School and offers the complete set of Cambridge
International qualifications from Grades 1 to 12.
b. Primary School (Ages 6-11) : Cambridge International Primary for students enrolled in Grades 1 – 5
c. Middle School (Ages 11-14): Cambridge International Lower Secondary for students enrolled in Grades
6 – 8.
d. High School (Ages 14-16): Cambridge International Upper Secondary (IGCSE) for students enrolled in
Grades 9 & 10. Students enrolled in Grade 10 will complete this qualification by appearing for the IGCSE
examinations in March of the respective year of completion.
e. Senior School (Ages 16-18): Cambridge International Advanced Level (AS & A Levels; AICE Diploma)
qualifications for students enrolled in Grades 11 & 12.
f. Senior School (Ages 16-18): International Baccalaureate Diploma Program (IBDP) qualifications for
students enrolled in grades 11 and 12. Legacy School is accredited by the International Baccalaureate to
offer Diploma Program.
g. The curriculum is subject to revisions as mandated by the board. The school reserves the right to make any
such revisions in the curriculum when deemed appropriate, relevant or necessary.
lsb.edu.in

6. Assessments: At Legacy School, we conduct both - Formative and Summative assessments to support students’
development and progress. Formal examinations commence from Grade 5 onwards.
7. Standardized & Board Assessments:
a. Progression Tests (Grades 2, 3, 4, 6 & 7): These tests are developed based on the guidelines and curriculum
framework given by Cambridge Assessment International Education (CAIE), and are administered by the
school at the end of each academic year. These diagnostic assessments are only used to determine a
child’s level of proficiency and academic progress, and are used to help bridge any gaps in conceptual
understanding before a child progresses to the next grade.
b. International Benchmarking Tests (Grades 3 – 10): The International Benchmarking Tests are mandatory
skill-based assessments that are conducted in the areas of English, Math and Science for all students
enrolled in Grades 3 – 10.
c. Cambridge Checkpoint Examinations (Grade 5 & 8): These tests are administered by Cambridge
Assessment International Education upon the completion of the Primary (Grade 5) and Lower Secondary
(Grade 8) qualifications, to ensure that the student is proficient with the primary and middle school curricula
and is eligible to transition to the High School for the Cambridge Upper Secondary – IGCSE qualification.
These mandatory diagnostic assessments are conducted in the areas of English, Math, Science & Global
Perspective (GP) at the end of Grade 5 and 8 in April.
d. Cambridge Upper Secondary – IGCSE (Grade 10): These examinations are administered by Cambridge
Assessment International Education (CAIE) upon the completion of the Upper Secondary qualification for
students in Grade 10.
e. Cambridge Advanced – A Level Certificate / AICE Diploma (Grades 11 & 12): These examinations
are administered by Cambridge Assessment International Education (CAIE) upon the completion of the
Cambridge AS (Grade 11) and Cambridge A Level (Grade 12) qualifications.
f. International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme (IBDP - Grades 11 & 12): External exams are held at the
end of the second year (Grade 12) upon completion of the course and fulfilling the requirements of the core:
Theory of Knowledge (TOK), Extended Essay (EE) and Creativity, Actvity and Service (CAS).
g. PSAT: All our students in Grade 9 write PSAT (Preliminary SAT) which is conducted by the College Board,
USA. The test is an external benchmarking test giving students an insight into their progress. The test
provides a detailed skill breakdown and performance review, helping students identify their strength and
weakness areas, and enabling them to adopt smarter and more effective strategies while preparing for SAT
or other similar standardized/competitive exams in India or overseas. For more information visit https://
collegereadiness.collegeboard.org/psat-nmsqt-psat-10
h. NMSQT-All our students in Grade 10 write NMSQT (National Merit Scholarship Qualifying Test ) which is
conducted by the College Board, USA and measures the skills and knowledge that matter most for college
and career success. The Score Report provides a detailed skill breakdown and performance review,
helping students identify their strength and weakness areas, and enabling them to adopt smarter and
more effective strategies while preparing for SAT or other similar standardized/competitive exams in India
or overseas. For more information visit https://collegereadiness.collegeboard.org/psat-nmsqt-psat-10
ENROLLMENT & ACADEMIC PROGRESSION
8. Montessori 3 (Upper Kindergarten): Students admitted under the ‘general admission’ category into the preprimary school for the Montessori program, will be required to reconfirm their intent (in writing) to continue into
Grade 1 for the International Primary program at Legacy School. Confirmations must be received when a student in
enrolled in the M4 (Upper Kindergarten) class by the date specified by the school. Failure to do so will result in the
seat being forfeited in Grade 1. (This is not applicable for students enrolled under the RTE Act.)
9. Cambridge Assessment International Education - Upper Secondary - IGCSE (Grades 9 & 10): Upon the completion
of the Lower Secondary qualification, students desiring to continue with the Cambridge Assessment International

Education – Upper Secondary - IGCSE qualification are required to meet the eligibility criteria as specified in point
11a below. The school reserves the right to determine if a student is eligible to be enrolled in the Upper Secondary
qualification, and also if they can be registered for the IGCSE examinations.
10. Cambridge Assessment International Education - ‘A’ levels & International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme
(IBDP) (Grades 11 & 12): Upon the completion of the IGCSE (Grade 10) examinations, students can continue into
Grade 11 and pursue either the Cambridge International ‘A’ levels or International Baccalaureate Diploma Program
qualification. The applicant must satisfy the eligibility criteria as specified in point 11 below. The school reserves the
right to determine if a student is eligible for entry and also if they can be registered for the examinations.
11. Association of Indian Universities (AIU): Entry to undergraduate courses in India after high school completion
programmes from international boards like Cambridge and IB are regulated by the Association of Indian Universities
(AIU). Students are eligible to apply for an undergraduate course of their choice as per the subject combinations
mandated by a university or college provided
For Cambridge, a student must have 5 passes, including English, with Grades of A, B or C in the IGCSE examinations
and 2/3 passes in the ‘A’ Level examinations in order for their qualifications to be recognized in India
For IBDP, similarly, a student pursuing IB Diploma must have 24 points and should have passed a minimum of three
subjects at Higher Level (HL) and three at Standard Level (SL) for their qualifications to be recognized in India.
11a. Hence, upon the completion of the Cambridge Assessment International Education - Lower Secondary qualification,
a student at Legacy School must have maintained an overall grade of ‘C’ (70%) and an overall attendance of 90% to
be considered eligible to continue into and pursue the IGCSE. Further, a student completing IGCSE must also have
maintained a minimum of a ‘C’ grade (70%) or higher in every subject that he/she would like to pursue further in the
Cambridge A Level qualification or the IB Diploma Programme.
12. Recognition: The Cambridge Assessment International Education (CAIE) IGCSE and A Level
qualifications are recognized in India and around the world. Recognition details are available on the CAIE
website: www.cambridgeinternational.org
13. The International Baccalaureate Diploma Program (IBDP) is also accepted and recognized for admission to
undergraduate programs in India and around the world.
For more information about the acceptance policy for the IBDP qualification in India, please find india-recognitionguide-jan-2017 on the following link: http://www.ibo.org
PARENT COLLABORATION
14. Legacy School views learning as a collaborative process, and may request parents to assist with student programs,
events, field-trips, projects, activities, clubs, sports, internships, etc.
15. Parent-Teacher-Student interactions are held at regular intervals in the academic year. It is mandatory that one
parent attend each meeting.
LEARNING, BEHAVIOURAL OR EMOTIONAL REGULATION
16. If a student is identified with either of these challenges, the school will first conduct an informal assessment, based
upon which an official educational or behavioural assessment report could be required from an external certified
professional. The results of the report will remain confidential and the recommendations given will only be used
to help further support the child’s learning. In such a situation, it is mandatory that the parents work in cooperation
with the child, the consultant and the school (teachers, administrators, counselors and special educators.)
MISCELLANEOUS
17. Yoga: It is mandatory for all students of Grades 1 to 5 to attend Yoga classes. Only students with certified medical
conditions will be exempted.
18. Photograph / Video Policy: Photographs or videos of classes, students (individual or group), sports, literary events,
cultural performances, field-trips, competitions or any other school associated activities could be published on the
school website, internal school portal, school magazine, social media sites or in the school’s promotional material.
At the time of enrollment, parents must collect, complete and submit a media consent form.
19. Transport: Services are outsourced and managed by an external service provider. Transport services are provided

from a main pick-up point to school and back to a main drop-point. Transport services are not guaranteed to all
locations. The school reserves the ultimate right to select and / or change the service provider. Please refer to the
transport policy document for all other pertinent details.
20. Lunch: Lunch services are outsourced and managed by an external service provider. The school only offers a
vegetarian menu. Availability of this service is dependent upon the number of students who opt for the program
to ensure that it remains viable for any service provider. The school reserves the ultimate right to select and / or
change the vendor.

ENROLLMENT, FEES & WITHDRAWAL POLICIES
The Legacy School Fee policies and guidelines are designed to help us implement our strategic and annual plans
effectively, so that we can enable every student to experience a meaningful education. This document provides
detailed information to provide a clear understanding of our procedures relating to fees, enrollment and withdrawal.
The fee policies and guidelines are applicable to all Legacy parents / guardians (new and existing). We encourage you
to please read, understand and familiarize yourselves with the dates and processes mentioned in this policy. These
procedures are critical for us to deliver a quality educational experience for your child.
If you have any queries or require any clarification regarding these policies, please address them to the Accounts Office
at accounts@lsb.edu.in
TO APPLY FOR ADMISSION
Application Fee: This is a non-refundable fee; it is to be submitted along with your child’s application form
TO CONFIRM ADMISSION
Registration Fee: This is a non-refundable fee; once you have received an offer of acceptance, it is to be submitted to
confirm your child’s admission to the school.
TO CONFIRM ENROLLMENT
1. Development Fee: This is a non-refundable fee; it is to be submitted when confirming your child’s enrollment at
the point of entry
2. Annual Tuition Fees:
a. The fees are to be paid for the full year (12 months) as indicated in the fee schedule
b. The academic year consists of three (3) terms, and each term comprises of four (4) months
SECURITY / CAUTION DEPOSIT (Refundable)
1. Is a non-interest bearing, cautionary, refundable ‘Security Deposit’
2. Parents must always maintain the equivalent of one term’s fees, for the specific grade that their child is enrolled in,
as a cautionary deposit
3. Any damage to school property, loss of school materials, dues and non-payment of fees will be adjusted against
the security deposit
4. This security deposit will be refunded when the student either graduates or withdraws from school
5. Parents must formally apply for withdrawal from the school in writing and complete all school leaving procedures
prior to receiving a refund of the security deposit

6. The security deposit will only be refunded at the end of the respective academic year for students who transfer /
withdraw mid-year, or at the end of the respective academic year
OTHER / SUPPLEMENTARY FEES
The costs for books, stationery, uniforms, foreign language (optional), lunch (optional), transport (optional), recreational
trips, school events, board / standardized exam fees, after school activities, outbound experiential learning programs
and graduation fees are supplementary
FEE PAYMENT OPTIONS
a. For the convenience of parents / guardians, the fees can be paid either in Monthly, Term or Yearly payment options
b. The fees must be paid either by Personal Cheque, Demand Draft, Credit Card or ACH payment
c. Demand Drafts and cheques must be drawn in favour of ‘Legacy School’ and made payable at Bangalore
d. We accept either Master Card or Visa; however, there is a 3% surcharge on the total billable amount
e. Monthly: For those opting to pay the fees on a monthly basis, the annual fees can be paid in 10 equal monthly
installments through the ACH payment method only. The processing date for the collection of fees will be the 8th
of each respective month
f. Term Fees: Are payable in the month of April (Term 1), September (Term 2) and January (Term 3) of the corresponding
academic year
g. Exam Fees: Registration for board batches (IGCSE, AS/A Level) is done in December and the exam fee is due to be
paid in January.
For Art & Design, Spanish & Computer Science, exams are conducted only in the May series. Hence the exam fee
for the mentioned subjects will be due in March.
Registration for IB DP is done in the October of the 2nd year. Hence the exam fee for IB DP final exams falls due in
the October of DP year 2.
FEE PAYMENT INFORMATION
a. All fees are payable and accepted in Indian Rupees (INR) only
b. Please note that Legacy does not accept any payment of fees by cash
c. Receipts will be issued for all fee payments
d. All Bank charges pertaining to inward remittance of school fees, charges for dishonour of cheques/DDs and
applicable late fees, if any, will be debited to the student’s account and deducted from the security deposit
e. ACH service fee, cheque return charges, ACH payment return charges and late payment charges will be billed at
the applicable rates notified in the annual fee schedule
f. It is the responsibility of the parent to pay the school fees by the prescribed date
g. Delay in payment of fees would result in a late fee penalty being levied per day until the outstanding dues are paid
in full and a temporary suspension will be instated
h. Failure to pay the fees to the school, or any service provider of the school for a period exceeding 30 days, would
result in the fees being recovered from the security deposit; appropriate measures would be taken thereafter to
recover the same
i. Any unpaid fees or charges will be treated as amounts due and will be adjusted to the extent possible against the
balance of the security deposit
STUDENT WITHDRAWAL POLICY
Parents / Guardians may request to transfer/withdraw their child from Legacy School prior to the commencement of
the academic year by submitting a letter addressed to the Director, stating the reason/s for their withdrawal. They must
also submit the ‘transfer application form’ to the Student Records office.
lsb.edu.in
Schools are dependent upon a confirmed enrollment, and the corresponding revenue from the tuition fees of each
child, to plan their operations and services for the next entire academic year. Based upon the admissions and confirmed
enrollment, the school plans future development, procures resources, hires faculty and confirms contracts. Each
withdrawal has an impact on the school’s planning and preparation for the next academic year. As a result, if a parent/
guardian opts to withdraw a new student’s enrollment prior to the commencement of the academic year, the annual
fees and security deposits will be processed as per the school’s policies stated below, and will only then be refunded
as follows:
Requests for withdrawal received between February 1st and March 31st
Annual and Foreign Language Fees: A total of one month’s fees of the next academic year will come due, and will be
debited to the student’s account correspondingly
Refund of Security Deposit: A refund of the Security Deposit will be provided by July 10th of the next academic year.
The payment will be made after the adjustment of fees dues for the next academic year have been processed
Requests for withdrawal received between April 1st and May 31st
Annual and Foreign Language Fees: A total of one term’s fees of the next academic year will come due, and will be
debited to the student’s account correspondingly
Refund of Security Deposit: A refund of the Security Deposit will be provided by July 10th of the next academic year.
The payment will be made after the adjustment of fees dues for the next academic year have been processed
Requests for withdrawal received on or after June 1st
Annual and Foreign Language Fees: The entire year’s fees will come due, and will be debited to the student’s account
correspondingly. No portion of the fee paid for the next academic year will be refundable or refunded.
Refund of Security Deposit: A refund of the Security Deposit will be provided 90 days from the date of receipt of the
letter and application for withdrawal. The payment will be made only after the adjustment of all fees due for the next
academic year have been processed
Supplementary Fees (Refundable): Only the cost of food shall be refunded on a pro-rata basis, proportionate to the
number of days actually spent on the meal plan
Supplementary Fees (Non-Refundable): All other costs such as Bus Transport, Books, Stationery, Educational Supplies,
Outbound & Experiential programs will not be refunded, as they are pre-determined annual fixed costs that have been
committed to the various service providers.
Mid-Year Withdrawals
Annual and Foreign Language Fees: Are non-refundable under all other circumstances, except in the event of a
documented out-of-state or overseas job transfer; a minimum of one month’s notice would be required to be given
to the school. In such a situation, if the student withdraws in the First Semester, 50% of the annual fees would be due.
However, if the student withdraws in the Second Semester, fees for the remainder of the academic year would be due.
Refunds
In the event of a certified life-threatening medical illness, or death, the fees for all days that the child was scheduled to
be enrolled (in the future) would be refunded. A refund would only be processed and credited 90 days from the date
of withdrawal.
Non-Refundable Amounts
Once paid, the one-time non-refundable Application, Registration and Development Fee paid at the time of enrollment
are not refundable.
Deferred Admissions
If a request is received prior to April 30th, a confirmed admission may be deferred at the discretion of the School
Management. Admissions may be deferred for a period of 1 year upon payment of the one-time, non-refundable
Application, Registration and Development Fee. Please note that all fees shall be applicable as per the Fee Notification

relevant to the year the student physically begins attending school and any difference in the Application, Registration
and Development Fee will also have to be paid at the time of commencement.
Transfer Certificates
Transfer Certificates will be issued 14 working days after the student’s last working day at Legacy only when the school
is in session. A “No Dues Certificate” must be obtained by the parent/guardian before student performance reports are
issued. Please note that no Transfer Certificate or refunds will be issued while the student is still enrolled in school. Any
student, who wishes to rejoin the school after a Transfer Certificate is issued, will be considered as a new applicant.

DISCLAIMER:
1. Please be advised that there will be an annual escalation of the fees to account for the yearly increase in RTE students, inflation
and regular operational expenses
2. Prior to the end of the each academic year, the fee structure is revised and notified for the next academic year
3. If the Central or State Government introduce any new policies that impact the effective functioning, operations or finances of
the school, such as GST, the school reserves the right to revise the fee schedule. The School will always take a decision that is
in the best interest of the institution and the community it serves, and will therefore not bear the financial burden of any such
policies that are introduced by the Government.
4. The school reserves the right to amend the current fee schedule if there are any external or extenuating factors that warrant
the same.
5. Legacy School reserves the right to amend any of the school policies as and when deemed appropriate or necessary.
